you've probably heard
of the boston tea party something about
a bunch of angry colonists dressed as
native americans
throwing chests of tea into the water
but the story is far more complicated
full of imperial intrigue
corporate crisis smuggling and the
grassroots origins of the american
revolution
the first thing you need to know about
tea in the 1700s is that it was
really really popular in england each
man woman and child
consumed almost 300 cups of the stuff
every year
and since the english colonized america
americans
were crazy about t2 by the 1760s they
were drinking over a million pounds of
tea
every year so when britain wanted to
increase taxes on tea in america
people were not happy mostly because
they had no say in tax decisions made in
london
remember that famous phrase no taxation
without representation
the american colonists had long believed
that they were not subject to taxes
imposed by legislature in which they
lacked representation
in fact rather than paying the taxes
they simply dodged the tax collectors
since the east coast of america is
hundreds of miles long
and british enforcement was lacks about
three quarters of the tea americans were
drinking was smuggled in
usually from holland but the british
insisted that parliament
did have the authority to tax the
colonists especially after britain went
deeply into debt fighting the french in
the seven years war
to close the budget gap london looked to
americans and in 1767
imposed new taxes on a variety of
imports including the americans beloved
tea
america's response no thanks they
boycotted the importation of tea from
britain and instead
brewed their own after a new bunch of
british customs commissioners cried to
london for troops to help with tax
enforcement things got so heated that
the redcoats fired on a mob in boston
killing several people in what was soon
called the boston massacre
under the terms of the 1773 tea act
parliament cooked up a new strategy
now the east india company would sell
the surplus tea directly through
hand-picked consignees in america
this would lower the price to consumers
making british tea competitive with the
smuggled variety while retaining some of
the taxes but the colonists saw through
the british ploy and cried
monopoly now it's a cold and rainy
december 16
1773 about 5 000 bostonians are crowded
into the old south meeting house waiting
to hear whether new shipments of tea
that have arrived down the harbor will
be unloaded for sale when the captain of
one of the ships reported that he could
not leave with his cargo on board
sam adams rose to shout this meeting can
do no more to save the country
cries of boston harbor a teapot tonight
rang out from the crowd
and about 50 men some apparently dressed
as native americans
marched down to griffin's wharf stormed
aboard three ships
and threw 340 t-chests overboard an
infuriated british government
responded with the so-called coercive
acts of 1774
which among other things closed the port
of boston until the locals compensated
the east india company
for the t that never happened
representatives of the colonies gathered
at philadelphia to consider
how best to respond to continued british
repression
this first continental congress
supported destruction of the t
pledged to support a continued boycott
and went home
in late october 1774 even more united in
their determination to protect their
rights and liberties
the boston tea party began a chain
reaction that led with little pause
to the declaration of independence and a
bloody rebellion after which the new
nation was free to drink its tea more or
less in peace
you